Switch from transport= back to alpn= (#116)
MikeBishop/dns-alt-svc: draft-ietf-dnsop-svcb-httpssvc.md

A few initial SvcParamKeys are defined here.  These keys are useful for
HTTPS, and most are applicable to other protocols as well.

## "alpn" and "no-default-alpn" {#alpn-key}

The "alpn" and "no-default-alpn" SvcParamKeys together
indicate the set of Application Layer Protocol Negotation (ALPN)

> protocol names (per {{ALPN=?RFC7301}}) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocol identifiers {{?ALPN=RFC7301}} 
```

and associated transport protocols supported by this service endpoint.  

As with {{AltSvc}}, the ALPN protocol name is used to 
identify the application protocol and associated suite 
of protocols used by the SVCB record (the "protocol suite").

> Clients use the set of ALPN protocol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients use the set of ALPN identifiers
```

to filter SVCB records to the set of protocol suites they support,
and then this informs the underlying transport protocol used (such
as QUIC-over-UDP or TLS-over-TCP).

> The actual Application Layer Protocol negotiated during 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual application-layer protocol negotiated during 
```

the secure handshake MAY differ from the ALPN specified 
in the SVCB record.

ALPNs are identified by their registered "Identification Sequence"
(alpn-id), which is a sequence of 1-255 octets.

    alpn-id = 1*255(OCTET)

The presentation value of "alpn" is a comma-separated list of one or
more `alpn-id`s.  Any commas present in the protocol-id are escaped
by a backslash:

   escaped-octet = %x00-2b / "\," / %x2d-5b / "\\" / %5d-%FF
   escaped-id = 1*255(escaped-octet)
   alpn-value = escaped-id *("," escaped-id)

> In the wire format for "alpn", each alpn-id is prefixed by its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the wire format for "alpn", each alpn-value is prefixed by its
```

```suggestion
In the wire format for "alpn", each ALPN identifier (alpn-value) is prefixed by its
```

length as a single octet, and these length-value pairs are concatenated
to form the SvcParamValue.  These pairs MUST exactly fill the SvcParamValue;
otherwise, the SvcParamValue is malformed.

For "no-default-alpn", the presentation and wire format values MUST be

> empty.

Reviewer: Separately, I think that `no-default-alpn` is the wrong default.  If a server wants to support HTTP/1.1 in this way, the bits it spends on saying that (I count 9 bytes) isn't that much.  I suspect that we'll want to prioritize space for servers that support other protocols in future, and burdening them with an additional attribute is not great.

Reviewer 2: This structure isn't intended to increase efficiency.  The additional attribute is there to make it hard to disable TLS accidentally.  Otherwise, a zone owner could easily write "alpn=h3", observe that everything works in their testing, and deploy without realizing that they've created an outage for all their non-QUIC-capable clients.

Each scheme that is mapped to SVCB defines a set or registry of allowed
ALPNs, and a "default set" of supported ALPNs, which SHOULD NOT
be empty.  To determine the set of protocol suites supported by an
endpoint (the "alpn set"), the client parses the "alpn" values'

> ALPN IDs, and then adds the default set unless the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endpoint (the "ALPN set"), the client parses the set of ALPN identifiers in
the "alpn" parameter, and then adds the default set unless the
```

"no-default-alpn" SvcParamKey is present.  The presence of a value in
the alpn set indicates that this service endpoint, described by
SvcDomainName and the other parameters (e.g. "port") offers service with
the protocol suite associated with the ALPN ID.

Clients SHOULD NOT attempt connection to a service endpoint whose

> alpn set does not contain any compatible protocols suites.  To ensure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alpn set does not contain any compatible protocol suites.  To ensure
```

consistency of behavior, clients MAY reject the entire SVCB RRSet and fall
back to basic connection establishment if all of the RRs indicate
"no-default-alpn", even if connection could have succeeded using a
non-default alpn.

For compatibility with clients that require default transports,
zone operators SHOULD ensure that at least one RR in each RRSet supports the
default transports.

As long as {{ALPN}} is securely negotiated as part of a cryptographic 

> handshake, clients MUST be willing to use "alpn" protocols negotiated

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph should be replaced by the text we previously had on this point: https://github.com/MikeBishop/dns-alt-svc/commit/9c133e81c8932d4017a9cff040577c09273186c7#diff-6a78b06198e2a4dd4bb7dc07a558a5adR696.  That text essentially states this requirement in the opposite way, which I think is clearer.  It could also be combined with the paragraph at Line 797 to reduce repetition.

Reviewer: One caution there: "For example, when using a SvcFieldValue with an "alpn" of "h2", the client MAY also" has a "MAY" in a "For example".  The word "could" is better.

Reviewer 2: Done

during a handshake even if they do not match an alpn value in 

> the alpn set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
handshake, clients MUST be willing to use protocols negotiated
during a handshake even if they do not match an ALPN value from the
set of values indicated in the "alpn" parameter.
```

> In cases where the alpn set is a list of multiple values,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where the ALPN set is a list of multiple values,
```

> In cases where the alpn set is a list of multiple values,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In cases where the alpn set contains multiple values,
```

> clients SHOULD prefer values earlier in the list, followed 

Reviewer 2: If the order matters then this isn't a set, and we need to define, where the default ALPN is inserted, for example.  However, I don't understand what value we are gaining for this complexity.  Why would a server need to tell the client which supported transport should be preferred?

Reviewer: I think that it's fine to say that this is an expression of the server's preferences.

Ordering relative to the default is why I would prefer to see no default value.

> by the default alpn if-present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the default ALPN identifier if-present.
```

> by the default alpn if-present.

Reviewer 2: The text currently allows a scheme to have _multiple_ default ALPNs, so this needs to be a plural, and instead of a "default set" we would presumably need a "default list" in a specified order.  (As above, I don't think this is worthwhile.)

Reviewer 3: Agreed. I'd drop this sentence.

Author: Sounds good to me to drop this.

Reviewer 2: Done

As with {{AltSvc}}, the ALPN protocol identifier is used to
identify the application protocol and associated suite
of protocols supported by the endpoint (the "protocol suite").
Clients filter the set of ALPN identifiers to match the protocol suites they
support, and this informs the underlying transport protocol used (such
as QUIC-over-UDP or TLS-over-TCP).

ALPNs are identified by their registered "Identification Sequence"
(alpn-id), which is a sequence of 1-255 octets.

    alpn-id = 1*255(OCTET)

The presentation value of "alpn" is a comma-separated list of one or
more `alpn-id`s.  Any commas present in the protocol-id are escaped
by a backslash:

    escaped-octet = %x00-2b / "\," / %x2d-5b / "\\" / %5d-%FF
    escaped-id = 1*255(escaped-octet)
    alpn-value = escaped-id *("," escaped-id)

In the wire format for "alpn", each ALPN identifier (`alpn-id`) is prefixed by its
length as a single octet, and these length-value pairs are concatenated
to form the SvcParamValue.  These pairs MUST exactly fill the SvcParamValue;
otherwise, the SvcParamValue is malformed.

For "no-default-alpn", the presentation and wire format values MUST be
empty.

> Each scheme that is mapped to SVCB defines a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each scheme that uses this SvcParamKey defines a
```

"default set" of supported ALPNs, which SHOULD NOT
be empty.  To determine the set of protocol suites supported by an
endpoint (the "ALPN set"), the client parses the set of ALPN identifiers in
the "alpn" parameter, and then adds the default set unless the
"no-default-alpn" SvcParamKey is present.  The presence of a value in
the alpn set indicates that this service endpoint, described by
SvcDomainName and the other parameters (e.g. "port") offers service with
the protocol suite associated with the ALPN ID.

ALPN IDs that do not uniquely identify a protocol suite (e.g. an ID that
can be used with both TLS and DTLS) are not compatible with this
SvcParamKey and MUST NOT be included in the ALPN set.

Clients SHOULD NOT attempt connection to a service endpoint whose

> alpn set does not contain any compatible protocol suites.  To ensure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ALPN set does not contain any compatible protocol suites.  To ensure
```

All the SvcParamKeys defined in {{keys}} are permitted for use in
HTTPSSVC.

The allowed protocols suites are the protocols in the ALPN

> Registry defined for HTTPS.  The only default alpn value 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registry defined for HTTPS.  The only default ALPN value 
```

receiving that field value over HTTPS.  However, there are some
differences in the intended client and server behavior.

Unlike Alt-Svc, the ALPN value in a SVCB record is not

> guaranteed to match the ALPN value negotiated in the TLS handshake.

Reviewer: I would prefer to correct Alt-Svc on this point.  But that requires more work.  Perhaps you could leave a marker here indicating a desire to fix that aspect of 7838.

Reviewer 2: OK, I added a marker.

The "Service Binding (SVCB) Parameter Registry" shall initially
be populated with the registrations below:

| SvcParamKey | NAME            | Meaning                         | Reference       |
| ----------- | ------          | ----------------------          | --------------- |
| 0           | (no name)       | Reserved for internal use       | (This document) |

> | 1           | alpn            | Additional supported protocol   | (This document) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| 1           | alpn            | Additional supported protocols  | (This document) |
```
